
While Pudel is finishing up 1.36c I want to discuss, as a community, some concepts for 1.4. The map is going to go through a lot of changes, but I want to get feedback on certain dramatic propositions in an attempt to ensure it's in the best interest of the map.

Before I discuss any ideas in detail, I'd like to list a few points that have influenced my position:
(1) Melee DPS in 1.3 are less desirable than ranged for several reasons: The only difficult boss has thorns, melee die often to bosses changing target, they have to spend time running back and forth to change targets, and too many melee crowd combat and can hinder mobility.

(2) Players have infinite mana in 1.3 because of Hera's Blessing. This could be rebalanced, though I don't believe it would make more people play (and enjoy) the map.

(3) Even if items in the game were increased to allow different builds, there are barely enough bank slots to accomodate 2 (let alone any other items, like crafting components).

(4) If only one person is in the game, the game ends. This doesn't "encourage" group play, but instead "forces" it. (This tactic doesn't work for players with access to more than one computer, or any other system that bypasses the game detecting 1 player in the game)

(5) Players AFK because materials required for crafting are absurdly high and max level requires a lot of grinding.

Some of my ideas for each of these points are as follows:
(1) Reduce the gap between Melee DPS EHP and Tank EHP. Currently in 1.3 a tank will have roughly 75,000 hp and 90% armor - this gives them an EHP around 750,000 (not including evasion, block, etc). Melee DPS have around: 50,000 health and 75% armor, or 25,000 health and 85% armor. These equal 200,000 and 166,667 EHP respectively. This is obviously an attempt to make them "off-tanky" enough to survive, but it didn't work. Not even including the other bonuses, tanks are almost 4x the EHP of melee. Is it necessary to have this gap? While it does make tanks seem more "beefy", and required, a few levels usually allow DPS to solo bosses. The only situations that this doesn't apply to are Hades and Hyperion, which is because they are too close to the level cap to outlevel. Since players will be able to outlevel content no matter what system is used, balance at maximum level should be the priority. I believe that closing the gap between Melee DPS EHP and Tank EHP will help prevent Melee DPS from dying as often, while also creating more dynamic fights.

There are numerous ways of accomplishing this, so I won't get into specifics about stats, but I will describe how it would play out in game.
SPOILER(Low Difference in EHP Boss Fight): HIDE
A full group of mixed characters enter a level 200 boss area. The Tank has 80k EHP, while the Melee DPS have 60K EHP, and the Ranged DPS/Healers have 40K EHP. The healers are just barely able to keep the tank at full health under normal conditions, and suffer a little when dealing with AoE and events. If the Tank dies, the melee are close enough in EHP that they can survive roughly 2/3 as long giving the healers time to ressurect the Tank. It's important to get the tank back up because of the increased ease of healing them (so it's more necessary long term, than short term). If there are no Melee, the boss could easily run around stomping ranged characters. This makes melee valuable as offtanks (that actually survive a few hits), while the unique class skills and varied boss events make mixed groups preferable to a group full of one build. Long boss fights make tanks crucial.


(2) Rebalancing the map so that players constantly run out of mana I think would only annoy players. With that said, I don't like players spamming all skills every cooldown without a single thought. My ideal system has players thinking more about what to do in that specific circumstance, instead of trying to plan out their character in town to work in any circumstance (like currently). The best solution I've come up with to accomplish this is actually from a game I don't generally talk well about - Diablo 3. By making energy come back very rapidly, but having spells rebalanced to have high costs and no cooldowns, players are now more interested in managing how damage efficient their spells are in the current circumstance versus the energy efficiency. Some spells likely would still have cooldowns due to the nature of the spell, but largely speaking you could spam anything. By varying buffs and debuffs on skills, it helps alleviate specific rotations. The primary advantage of this system is no more running out of mana and having to return to town to sit around for 60 seconds, or dying in a boss fight because your healer "doesn't have enough regen yet". Boss fights would be balanced around effective healing per second instead of around effective mana conservation. Instead of limiting the spamming of spells with cooldowns, it's limited with set regeneration values and max resource. I think this eliminates a lot of unnecessary hastle related to healing and allows those healers to instead think of their spells, and not their mana.

(3) RPG's are all about items, in one way or another. Having cool skills in nice, but having cool skills AND cool armor is much better. Looking like a badass is sometimes more important to people than actually being a badass - having both is perfect. The main problem in 1.3 is the lack of viable gear choices. With a new save system, there is almost unlimited room for improvement. A top priority of mine is to create more items than anyone would know what to do with, and the room to save most of them. Banks will need to be redesigned somehow to accomodate much larger quantities of items, so players can collect multiple sets of gear for varying encounters.

Related to items is developing a new system for dropping items. The current "random item dropped on the ground, and hoping no one steals it" is a poorly designed system. Pudel has recommend a rolling system for items. I don't like a "forced" rolling system much more than the current FFA system, because it doesn't fix the system - only improves it. Griefers can obviously still roll on items they don't need and steal them (though much less likely). This is something that should be looked into to try and remove any possiblity of stealing, while still allowing trading and even distribution of loot.

(4) The concept of ending the game when only one player is left is for a few reasons: To prevent players from AFKing for long periods in bot games wasting a host slot, to prevent players from AFKing in mob-zones to level, and probably initially to help prevent playing in single player. This system does not work. While it does to a small degree help keep hostbots clear, many gamers have found ways around the 1 player limit - it really only punishes a portion of the community then and gives unfair advantage to those with ways around it. 1.4 should no longer have a 1 player auto-end feature, or require more than one player to start. Obviously "Single Player" will automatically end/crash to prevent cheats, and bots will have autohost requirements, but anyone will be able to host a solo game on Lan if they don't have internet or friends.

New systems will be implemented to "encourage" group play of course. Waves will scale differently to: better represent the strength of the players, and scale in a way that fighting a wave alone is "proportionately" harder than fighting a wave with 7-11 other players. Areas in the game will also feature entirely new enemy designs, where some enemies are strong against physical and others magical. This will provide a moderate benefit to players who adventure with a hero of the other type. Areas will also spawn elites. The trigger for the elites would be an increasing percent spawn chance per minute based on the number of players in that area (not in the game), so being in an area alone will have them spawn less often. Elites will be tuned far above that area's average strength however, and will be difficult - to impossible - for a solo player near its level. While they are easily ran from (and they reset with the area), they do provide unique items and large rewards making them certainly worth killing.

More systems are also considered (like increased experience and material gains for more players in the game) to encourage group play while also not entirely requiring it. Related to this issue is endgame boss scaling. Making endgame bosses require the maximum number of players will likely cause the map to die extremely fast, though making the bosses too easy will also cause it to lose interest quickly. I proposed bosses scaling with the number of players in the game in such a way that it would require at least 5 players to have a chance, and get proportionately harder for each player added to the game. The balance of difficulty would error on the side of the players so that it's definitely more beneficial to have a group, but that it's not easy even with a full group. Pudel suggested increasing the player limit, so that's something to consider. It's rare these days to have 8 people in a game, but when you do it can certainly get crowded. Having 12 players in a game might cause pathing issues. At the same time, having more players allows for boss fights to become far more dynamic. A group could be expected to consist of 3 Tanks, 3 Healers and 6 DPS. One Main Tank, one tank for absorbing attacks that only hit the player with the highest "max" health, and a third for add control. Healers in 1.4 are quite different from one another so allowing three per battle helps balance (and utilize) their unique talents, instead of having to pick 1 or two max. If 12 players is possible, it definitely sounds interesting.

(5) This has been talked about for a long time and solutions for most of the problems have been found. I don't have the notes in front of me, but duping has been basically eliminated in 1.4, meaning that costs of things can be brought back down to reasonable ranges. There is no need to have things cost hundreds of thousands of materials, and by preventing duping and AFKing if you did make it required, no one would bother to do it. We also do not want to make items untradeable, so we have to use a system of item "replacement and binding" creatively. Items bought from a shop spawn a bound item that can be resold. It's possible to unbind the item, but it is replaced by one that cannot be sold. At least I think that was the system - I'll have to check when I get my old harddrive back. (The item, when a player tries to sell the unbound version, should display a message, "The Warranty is void on tampered with products.")

(6) To make areas and fights a little more dynamic (than 1.3) I'd like to make two distinct categories of enemies - physical resistant and magical resistant. There will be at least one of each in every area, and possibly an unmodified one in areas with odd numbers of mobs. While noticable, they will of course be balanced not to make soloing impossible (or even super difficult). A hypothetical example would be ~40% evasion/armor/block for physical resistant, and ~40% resist for magical (numbers, again, are hypothetical and not final values). This supports group work, while not forcing it.

A system I would like to use (but haven't discussed with Pudel how realistic it is yet... not until 1.36c is finished), is to have pools of skills that mobs can be spawned with randomly. Mobs would have specific numbers of skill slots, and they would fill those slots randomly from a list of possible skills. This will sound like Elites from Diablo III, though I should mention that I had the system in mind before Diablo III came out (Way back, when I first started redesigning bosses, I designed the new Hyperion to have 4 categories of randomly selected skills. This is just carrying the idea to every single mob in the game). Most skills would simply scale to mob stats, so balancing them between Minions, Elites, and Bosses should be rather easy. Not all skills would be random however, otherwise all mobs would simply feel the same. Every single mob in the game has at minimum 1 static skill that truly defines them (stronger mobs may have multiple static skills). Skill pools would likely exist for specific bosses as well, like the new endgame ones. (NOTE: These don't refer to "Events". Most bosses will have triggered Events that are entirely independant of skill pools)

So in summary, skills on enemies will vary from one to the next so you don't know exactly what an enemy will do. This also promotes teamwork as a physical resist enemy may spawn with increased regeneration - which may become very time consuming. TBR has never been about having to pay attention every millisecond (or you might die - like 2.0), so I'd keep that tradition for leveling. Mobs would be too dangerous to AFK, but not ridiculous to the point of gibbing you if you use the wrong skill to start the fight. I naturally want the game to feel like the same game, and mob balancing is important to accomplish that.

(7) Reterraining. While initially this was reserved to touch-ups, I'm considering something more dramatic.

The layout of The Black Road 1.3 is very distinctive, and I obviously don't want to change it much, but I would like to add on. Enlarging the borders of the map increases the file size dramatically, so instead I've thought of a better option. I'd like to reduce the size of models in the map by at least 50% (and slowing movement speed proportionately) to make the map feel bigger. To utilize this change (and not make the map feel like an annoying runfest) I'd also, essentially, reterrain the entire map into a smaller version of itself. This would make the map feel almost identical to 1.3, but free up tons of border room for new areas or other systems (PvP arenas, PvE arenas, Integrated Crafting, Dungeons, Integrated Banks). I believe this is the only way to keep the file size reasonable while adding a lot of new content. Again, I'd be shrinking the map to a smaller version of itself while keeping the layout almost identical.

(8) Integrated Crafting and Banking? These are just rough concepts at the moment, but the idea would be to remove those pop-up menus from the game as well as the 6 item storage limitation.

Crafting could be activated from the character (Patrol removed and a small spellbook added for quick commands. Players could then open the spellbook by hotkey and change the camera, craft items, or display information by pressing another hotkey. This allows for most commands to be done by two quick button presses). Instead of listing recipes in windows, they could be listed in buildings. Give items a short crafting time, and then they appear in your wisp (or under you). The short duration is to prevent duping items by glitching the item cue, so it wouldn't need to be more than 1 second. This allows for windowless crafting that technically wouldn't even need a crafting button; players could just hotkey their crafting buildings. It would be much faster and never cause players to miss chat, or crash.

For Banks, there are dozens of effective solutions. An area for each player could be allocated in one corner of the map. Items could be stored in that area in many different ways, but regardless of the method it would allow for many to be stored. Banks in town could still exist, but instead have pages that link to the other buildings you have. Here's what first popped into my head:
SPOILER(Bank System): HIDE
(1) Player buys a Bank and it shows up the same way as 1.3.
(2) When an item is dropped in the new Bank, however, it automaticaly assigns it to the first available slot in the "bank" zone, and it disappears from the deposit box.
• The "Bank" zone would be an area where player banks are stored. They would be player separated, but they "would" be designed to accomodate easy moving of items between "tabs".
(3) The Bank in town has "skills" you click on to access different bank "tabs", which are just copies of the bank it links to.

So this is simply creating multiple banks with the Bank in town being a way to quick swap between them, as well as quickly deposit into them. There are countless other ways of doing this, so I should just point out what I feel is important: Storing many more items without having to do more work (like teleporting back and forth, etc), as well as accessing ALL of those items equally as easily.

With these concepts every single "window" should be gone from the game, systems for crafting and items should be just as fast (if not faster), and they should accomodate dramatically more items than previous versions.

I'd like to emphasize that 1.4 will not have a steep learning curve. 1.3 did not, and thus 1.4 will not. Even though many new systems are being used, and many changes are being made, it's my job to make sure the game will still play like previous versions. Endgame content will obviously be more complicated than 1.3, but it will build up to that over 200 levels. Leveling a character in 1.4 will be intuitive - you will do what feels normal and learn systems systematically. The starting areas will explain stats while you experiment with the new skills. After that, you'll be introduced to enemy types, and enemy abilities. Elites will introduce themselves after basic concepts are solid. Everything will be done with proper pacing so it doesn't feel like a chore.

I've been withholding bringing up stats because they have so many possible variations. I'll list one possibility, though keep in mind that this thread is about ideas, and not what I'm saying has to be in the map (this is a discussion thread).

(9) Slightly changed stats. As both Strength and Agility are predominantly physical heroes, a system needs to exist that makes them equally capable with physical attacks. 1.3 is somewhat balanced in this regard as Strength heroes need Agility, and Agility heroes need Strength (some balancing could improve it, but the point is that it's somewhat close). While it's possible to use the same system, and only make subtle changes to improve balance, I'd like there to be a noticable offensive difference between the two. I'd also like there to be a noticable difference between Strength and Agility defensively. This would create a difference between Strength Tanks, Agility Tanks, Strength DPS, Agility DPS, Caster DPS, and Caster Healers (or create 6 different roles heroes can fill).

As mentioned previously, items would be what truly define your role. Without items, Strength and Agility heroes would be equal in offensive and defensive capabilities. When items are worn, however, it boosts your damage or defense significantly. Not only does this allow for certain enemies to have a bias against more builds (Hypothetically, Agility attack faster whereas Strength hit slower but harder. Some enemies might transform if they are hit too many times, making Strength DPS better to use. Some enemies might have a damage "cap", where any damage above that amount is ignored, making the faster smaller damages more effective) which makes a little more dynamic combat, but it also allows for more items and builds.

I think it would make heroes feel more useful being able to build in so many different ways. DPS wouldn't encompass every single damage character and build - Strength DPS, Agility DPS, and Caster DPS would function differently enough to warrant paying attention to, but similar enough that it isn't forced to have one of each every game. Pudel and I are talking specifics at the moment, but that's the general concept.

Simply put, I want there to be a lot of content for people to experience. By making two different melee types (as well as two tank, and two casters), players could be even further encouraged (skills aside) to level new characters. Those new roles could utilize certain items differently. This allows for more dynamic enemies as well as items ==> You can build as a hybrid melee (balance attack speed and critical) and have marginal difficulty against most mobs, or specialize so you can dominate certain mobs (and have someone play the reverse to balance your designed weakness).

So yeah, items will be vastly different. Pudel and I don't like generic items (like +25 all stats, or +100 Strength). Stats should be stats, and items should be items. There may be "item stats" that are appealing to multiple roles, like +damage, but there likely won't be much for generic stats on items. I picture endgame items looking more like:

Champion's Banhammer of Hipster Wrath
5% chance to cast rank 8 Hammer of the Gods on attack.
5% chance to stun minions for 15 seconds.
Increases attack damage by 500
Increases Critical Chance by 100
Increases Critical Damage by 100
Nearby deaths increase the wielders damage by 50 for 5 seconds.

The stun would only work on non-boss mobs (though any damage would proc it - spell or melee). The Critical values are static numbers that stack, so every item and skill that gives "static" amounts will scale together. This is obviously a DPS weapon aimed at burst damage (no attack speed, just damage and critical - with a low chance of a powerful skill), though several builds could technically use it. That's the goal essentially - if you're a Strength hero, you don't look for Strength items... you look for items with whatever stats you want at that time. Sometimes it might be attack speed, sometimes more crit, and sometimes you will want to mix tank and DPS items. As far as items specifically for your "stat" type, I really don't want to see any.